We discuss the construction of probabilistic models centering on temporal pat- terns of query refinement. Our analyses are derived from a large corpus of Web search queries extracted from server logs recorded by a popular Internet search service. We frame the modeling task in terms of pursuing an understanding of probabilistic relationships among temporal patterns of activity, informational goals, and classes of query refinement. We con- struct Bayesian networks that predict search behavior, with a focus on the progression of queries over time. We review a methodology for abstracting and tagging user queries. Af- ter presenting key statistics on query length, query frequency, and informational goals, we describe user models that capture the dynamics of query refinement. The evolution of the World Wide Web has provided rich opportunities for gathering and analyz- ing anonymous log data generated by user interactions with network-based services. Web-based search engines such as Excite, AltaVista, and Lycos provide search services by crawling and indexing large portions of the Web. In a typical session, a user enters a string of words into the search engine's input field and receives an HTML page containing a list of web documents matching the user's query. This list may include hundreds of documents. Web search engines rank this list and present the results in small groups. The user may follow one or more of the returned links, request additional results, or refine and resubmit a query. We review our work in developing models of users' search behaviors from log data. Our motivation is to enhance information retrieval by developing models with the ability to diagnose a user's informational goals. In this paper, we describe probabilistic models that are used to infer a probability distribution over user's goals from the time-stamped data available in server logs. More specifically, we elucidate probabilistic relationships between user goals and temporal patterns of query refinement activity. In contrast with the work of Maglio and Barrett (1997), who study several users' complete web searches, we consider only interactions with the search service itself. In distinction to the work of Silverstein et al. (1998), which reported statistics over a large corpus of unprocessed log data, we mine a corpus that has been hand-tagged to provide information about the refinements and goals associated with queries. We shall first describe the initial data set and our methodology for transforming the data into a representation of user behavior with richer semantics. We review a set of definitions that abstract queries into classes of query refinement and informational goals. We then present key statistics of our corpus. Finally, we describe the construction of Bayesian network models that capture dependencies among variables of interest.